A05:2025 – SQL Injection

This injection vulnerability is a core concept: not validating or sanitizing user input allows an attacker to insert malicious code, take over other accounts, or even compromise servers and databases.

In AI modules, there is also this type of vulnerability, like prompt injection in LLMs. According to OWASP's 2025 list, prompt injection (LLM01:2025) is the highest-impact vulnerability.

There are many types of such vulnerabilities, including:

SQL injection
NoSQL injection
XSS (Cross-Site Scripting)
Prompt injection

SQL Injection

Not properly sanitizing user input can lead to SQL injection. For example, if you do not sanitize the login page input, a user can enter something like ' OR true --, and this bypasses the login, giving the attacker access to the first user's account.

There are many injection points, such as parameters, the login page, the search bar, cookie input, and payloads — many places serve as attack surfaces for SQL injection. There are also different types of SQL injection.

Impact of this vulnerability:

Login credentials
Credit card details, personal information
Account takeover
And many more

Types of SQL injection:

Boolean-based
Union-based
Blind SQL
XML encoding

Boolean-based SQL injection

This is checked at every endpoint. Starting with ' returns an error. Then:

' AND '1'='1 — this always returns true
' AND '2'='2 — this always returns false

If the results confirm this behavior, the endpoint is vulnerable to SQL injection.

Next, we need to find how many columns are in the table. There are two ways to do this:

' ORDER BY 1 --

This increases the number until you get a 500 error — the last number before the error tells you how many columns there are.

To gather more information, we use a UNION-based attack:

' UNION SELECT NULL,NULL,NULL --

This also helps find the database version. If the number of NULLs matches the number of columns, it returns 200; otherwise it returns a 500 error — this is how we determine the number of columns.

Using this information, we can find all the table names in the database, along with column names and values.

Blind SQL injection

In blind SQL injection, the entry point for SQL is known, but it doesn't directly return information (e.g., in cookies). Instead, we notice changes in the response and use that to infer information. For example, some websites show a "welcome back" message depending on a tracking ID — we use that to find data.

First, check with ' AND '1'='1, then ' AND '1'='2. This produces a change: when ' AND '1'='1 is true, it returns the "welcome back" message; when ' AND '1'='2 is true, it returns nothing. Using this, we can determine whether a table exists, find column names, and figure out password-related information.

Within blind SQL injection, there is also a type called conditional errors. This is similar to the previous method, but instead of a data change, it relies on an error message appearing when the condition is wrong — we use that to build conditional logic and extract information.

XML encoding

This payload targets SQL vulnerabilities in input fields, such as user input that is accepted in the login flow. We use this to convert characters into HTML entities, which we then use to extract sensitive information.
